- [Instructor] This section will introduce,
what is a service mesh and particularly more about Istio.
Service mesh is a dedicated infrastructure layer
for handling service-to-service communication.
It is responsible for the reliable delivery
of requests through complex topology
of services that comprise a modern
cloud-native application.
This is particularly relevant in today's world
where developers are leaning
towards microservices-oriented architecture.
In the context of Kubernetes,
a service provides a simple OSI layer
for DNS-based load balancing for the pods
belonging to the service.
Service mesh addresses OSI layer seven
load balancing needs and a lot more.
Let's look at them next.
Service mesh ensures that communication
between a Service A and a Service B can be done
safely and securely.
This could include defending
against man-in-the-middle attack,
using encryption, and mutual TLS.
This also includes auditing capabilities
to check who did what at what time.
Reliability ensures there are provisions
for health checks, time outs,
deadlines, circuit breakers, and retries.
Service mesh provides visibility
into your microservices application.
It ensures there are top-line metrics
like request volume, success rates, and latencies.
This also includes monitoring
and distributed tracing across different services.
Configurability allows to do traffic shaping
between different services.
This enables capabilities like load balancing,
canary and A/B testing, shadowing,
and fault injection.
You can also do adaptive and zone aware routing
between services using this.
Trying to solve these problems
with an application or framework
of your choice not only makes the application complex,
but also difficult to maintain.
This becomes further complicated
if your application consists of multiple microservices,
potentially each written in a different language.
The combinatorial explosion of libraries
for different languages and platforms
makes it extremely difficult
to maintain such a solution.
A common design pattern is
where all logic for how the microservices need to connect,
including safety, reliability,
observability, and configuration
is configured in a sidecar proxy.
This work very well in Kubernetes,
as a proxy is installed as a sidecar container,
right next to the application container,
in the same pod.
Some of the advantages of this approach are,
this out-of-process architecture
decouples application code
from communication management code.
No change is required to the application code
to add the capabilities offered by the sidecar.
It also decouples application install
from application upgrades.
And finally, it minimize inconsistencies
across different microservices.
All external communication now happens
through the sidecar.
And because of being in the same pod,
application container and proxy
can talk to each other easily.
Service mesh can then extract a wealth
of signals about traffic behavior
and use that to enforce policy decisions, such as security.
It can also send them to monitoring systems
to provide information about monitoring
and observability of the application.
A microservices-based application
has different microservices,
each with multiple replicas.
Each replica is a pod.
For a service mesh-enabled application,
each pod has a sidecar container.
This fleet of proxies is the service mesh data plane.
How do we tell every proxy what to do?
How we ensure the safety, reliability,
and configuration can be done for each proxy?
How do we get observability across these proxies?
We need a control plane.
A control plane to manage the service mesh
data plane is required.
This control plane handles tasks
such as creating new instances
and injecting the proxy as sidecar,
management and monitoring,
observability, security between different services,
and implementing application-wide policies.
Istio provides a control plane
for this service mesh data plane.
You can find everything about Istio at Istio.io.
To go with the nautical puns around Kubernetes,
Istio is Greek for sail.
It uses an extended version of envoy
as a sidecar proxy.
Envoy, originally built by Lyft,
now a CNCF graduated project,
is a high performance C++ distributed proxy.
Envoy is known to run on tens of thousands of nodes
and process over 10 million requests
per seconds in the mesh.
Istio leverages Envoy's many built-in features.
For example, dynamic service discovery,
load balancing, TLS termination, circuit breaker,
and fault injection.
Formal definition of Istio from Istio.io is
that Istio allows to connect,
secure, control, and observe services.
This is analogous to the needs of the service mesh
that we explained earlier.
Let's look at some core features of Istio
to wrap up this section.
Istio provides the following core features.
Istio rules configuration and traffic routing
lets you control the flow of traffic
and API calls between services.
Istio simplifies configuration of service-level properties
like circuit breakers, time outs, and retries,
and makes it a breeze to set up important tasks
like A/B testing, canary rollouts, and staged rollouts
with percentage-based traffic splits,
with better visibility into your traffic
and out-of-box failure recovery features,
you can catch issues before they can cause problems.
Making calls more reliable and your network more robust.
Istio's security capabilities
free developers to focus on security
at the application level.
Istio provides an underlying secure communication channel,
and manages authentication, authorization,
and encryption of service communication at scale.
With Istio, service communications are secured by default,
letting you enforce policies consistently
across these diverse protocols and run times
all with little or no application changes.
Istio's robust tracing, monitoring, and logging
gives you deep insights into your service mesh deployment,
gain a real understanding of how service performance
impacts things downstream and upstream,
with Istio's monitoring feature,
while its custom dashboards provide visibility
into the performance of all of your services,
and let you see how the performance
is affecting your other processes.
Istio is platform independent,
and designed to run in a variety of environments,
including those spanning cloud, on-prem,
Kubernetes, services with distributed console, and more.
The policy enforcement component of Istio can be extended
and customized to integrate with existing solutions
for access control lists, logging, monitoring,
quotas, auditing, and more.